We are gonna do our next project together.
This is the final project, so
congratulations on making this far.
Many of you are probably familiar
with the word game Wordle,
right, written by my former
coworker Josh Wordle from Reddit.
It's a word game that you and I will just
play it together quickly to show you kind
of like how it works if you're
not familiar with Wordle.
I call it Word Masters here or
Frontend Masters, right, make sense.
So people have one, two, three, four,
five, guesses to try and
guess what a word is.
So what they can do here is
they can guess, Some word,
I pick CRANE cuz apparently that's
what everyone picks, right?
And then it'll tell you C, A, N and
E are nowhere in that word,
and R is in that word,
but it is in the wrong place, right?
So, let's guess something else.
The next thing I always guess is TOILS.
So I know for a fact there is an I,
and O, and an R,
and they're in the wrong place.
I actually know what the word is but
if it's in the correct place, Let's see.
Well, if you could guess
the correct word which
today it is IVORY, it'll tell you you win.
And then I put a little animation
there at the end where it flashes all
the rainbow that to let
you know that you won.
But if it's in the correct place,
then it will turn green.
Last, so
I'm gonna just refresh the page here.
It's the same word, so if I put IVORY
again, you'll just win right away.
But if I put gibberish in here,
notice that it'll just flash red,
to show me that you're trying to get
something that's actually worse.
All the guesses must be valid words.
Yeah, that is it, that's the entire
game of how to play Wordle.
So this is what you
are going to code yourself.
Now, what I find compelling about this is
you just took an intro to web development
course, and you're going to be coding
an application that got sold to
the New York Times for
several million dollars, right?
Which is to say, the skills that you
have acquired here could potentially be
worth several millions of dollars, right?
Josh has had a really good idea and
he executed on it really well, and
that was worth a lot of money to someone.
So you can take your ideas,
you can make apps out of them, and
then maybe sell them to people.
So one thing my demo doesn't
work on mobile phones.
You get extra bonus points if you do.
I did make it work on mobile phones but
it made it so much more complicated in
the code that I just decided, we're not
gonna worry about that for the moment.
So, I've the kind of the plan here.
There's a secret five-letter word chosen,
right?
I have an API setup for you, so
that it will give you a new word
everyday just like with Wordle.
Wordle, there's only one word
every single day, right, and
then it changes everyday at midnight.
Players have six guesses
to get this secret word.
So if I just say CRANE, CRANE, CRANE,
So it'll tell you that you lose,
the word was IVORY.
Right, so it'll tell you at the end,
I'm just using alerts.
Alerts are objectively terrible user
experiences, but I didn't wanna spend
a bunch of times coding up some sort
of a nice looking losing screen.
But you could totally do that, right,
you can have something better than alerts.
So if a player gets his letter that's
in the correct place, show it as green.
So let's just refresh this again.
What's a word that would have
something that would match, but
not be the correct thing.
English is not my strong
suit all the time.
Anyway, it would just show
that as green here, right?
And obviously if you do IVORY.
It shows them all in green, right?
Okay, so a good example,
if the player gets a SPOOL and
the word is OVERT, right, one of the Os
will be shown here as green, right?
Actually, one's gonna be shown as yellow.
But yeah, if a player guesses
the correct letter in the correct place,
it'll be green, okay?
Another thing that ends
up being a little bit
difficult is that what happens if,
here, right?
So OVERT it has one O,
if that's the correct word, and
you have SPOOL here, which has two Os.
You shouldn't show both Os as yellow,
right,
because there is one yellow in the word,
but there's not two.
So the first one should be shown as
yellow but the second one shouldn't be.
But let's say the word is,
I don't know, POOL or
something like that,
word actually does have two Os, right?
Then you need to make sure that
the correct number of letters are showing
as yellow and/or green.
So if this was POOLS and
the correct word was SPOOL,
then one of them would be green and
one of them would be yellow, right?
Because the first O would be in
the correct place, but the one,
this O, would be correct that's in
the word but not in the right place.
Okay, the player guesses the right word,
then the game is over and
you do some sort of celebration.
Again, I just use that same rainbow
animation that I showed you in the CSS
animation chapter.
I try to think if there's
anything else interesting to say.
Notice that I have a loading indicator,
right?
So if you catch it right
when I refresh the page,
there's like a little spinny thing.
There's a green one,
it took me a second to think about one.
Right, but
you see that little spinny guide,
it's requesting something from the API and
then now you're waiting, right?
It's a loading indicator, right?
Cuz there's some delay between when you
make the call and when the call comes
back, you don't want the user to think
that the thing is broken, right?
I'm on a very fast Internet connection at
the moment, so it's basically instant.
But imagine that user is on a 2G
connection in the middle of rural Montana
or something like that, right?
That can take a long time, so they might
be waiting a half second, a full second,
several seconds.
So the spinning indicator just lets us
know, chill out, I'm working on it, right?
That's why you wanna show
like a loading indicator.
Okay, So
you will need to call an API to
get the correct secret word.
Frontend Masters has created one for
you, so
that you can call their API and they
will give you back the word of the day.
So you have two APIs to work with.
One of them is this one here,
I'll give you the URL.
If you get to it,
You'll see here that you get IVORY.
And then at midnight tonight this
will change to be something else.
So by the time if you're watching
this later, it will not be IVORY,
it'll be something else.
Okay, The response will look like this,
will have a word.
It'll be some five-letter word,
I guarantee you that all of
these are five-letter words.
And you can ignore the puzzle number,
right, but
we just looked at puzzle number,
what was it, 53?
Tomorrow it will be Puzzle number 54 and
then 55, it just increments.
And then these are, if you just wanna have
some fun, like if you wanna keep guessing,
you can add random=1 to the end.
So if we do this, let me say random=1.
This was just me while I was testing cuz I
actually wanted to play the game, right?
Once you know the word of the day,
you have to wait a whole day, and
I didn't wanna wait a whole day.
But if you put random it'll just keep
giving you random words here, right?
Again, always five-letter words.
And there's several
thousands five-letter words.
The one disclaimer that I'm gonna throw
out right now, we did our best to clean
it of words that might be undesirable but
it is a random word list of words, right?
So, nothing isn't meant by any intent for
all these words, they're just,
I promise you, they're literally
just random five-letter words.
So, I'm sorry if you come across
one that's disagreeable to you.
I promise you, we don't mean anything.
And if you wanna request a specific word,
you can also say, what I call it, puzzle.
So you can put ?puzzle=1, if you wanna
see what the very first one was.
So it was cigar, right?
Fixer, right, 140, Okay,
so that is the word of the day.